---
layout: post
title: Non-tech: A guide to Russia on a budget
---

*This article is a work-in-progress and will be updated as I learn*

Been toying with the idea of visiting the motherland for a while now, but finally decided to actually do it. If you are a citizen of the EU, the process of entering Russia is (a little bit) strange because of the Visa and they way to obtain it, but I will cover that later.

For this guide, I am going to St. Petersburg from Bulgaria.

# Alternative ways on reaching it

### By plane
  This is the fastest and best way on reaching it, but you can choose from a few ways, depending on budget.

  * Lufthansa

  The most expensive, but also the best in my opinion. The flight is only about 5 hours with Lufthansa through Frankfurt and costs 250€ both ways.

  * AirSerbia

  Only 20€ cheaper, but it turns into a 20 hour flight because of the layover in Belgrade. It isn't worth it, at least for me.

### By plane and bus
  This is slightly cheaper, but takes around 12 hours longer. A plane from Sofia to Moscow is 50€ cheaper, but after 2-way bus tickets the savings are only 25€.

# Required Documents
If you are used to the free movement of the EU, this is not the same here - you need a Visa to enter and you have a choice between two:

### Tourist Visa
You are only allowed to stay 30 days and only in the cities agreed on beforehand. You need an invite from a Russian tourist agency to apply for one, these vary in price, but [Another Russia](http://www.anotherrussia.com/) offers them for 25€ for the Single-Entry Visa and 30€ for the Double-Entry Visa. It takes them 24 hours to prepare it and email it to you and you are almost done. If you are buying for a group of 3 or more, they cost only 20€.

### Valid passport for at least 6 months
Goes without saying that you need a valid passport, but it needs to be also valid for 6 months after the date of the visit.

### Health Insurance
It is usually a good idea to have it, but you are required to have one to apply for a Visa.

### 2 Passport photos
For the documents and Visa. Needs to be relatively new.

# Accommodation

# Places to visit

#
